Welcome back. You
previously learned to
encode a tweet as a vector of
dimension V. You will now
learn to encode a tweet or
specifically represented as
a vector of dimension 3.
In doing so, you'll have
a much faster speed for
your logistic
regression classifier,
because instead of
learning V features,
you only have to
learn three features.
Let's take a look at
how you can do this.
You just saw that the
frequency of a word in
a class is simply
the number of times
that the word appears
on the set of tweets
belonging to that class and that
this table is basically
a dictionary mapping
from word class pairs,
to frequencies, or
it just tells us how
many times each word showed
up in its corresponding class.
Now that you've built your
frequencies dictionary,
you can use it to extract
useful features for
sentiment analysis.
What does a feature look like?
Let's look at the
arbitrary tweet m.
The first feature would be
a bias unit equal to 1.
The second is the sum of
the positive frequencies for
every unique word on tweet
m. The third is the sum of
negative frequencies for every
unique word on the tweet.
So to extract the features
for this representation,
you'd only have to sum
frequencies of words.
Easy. For instance, take
the following tweets.
Now let's look at
the frequencies for
the positive class
from the last lecture.
The only words from the
vocabulary that don't appear on
these tweets are
happy and because.
Now let's take a look at
the second feature from
the representation that
you saw on the last slide.
To get this value,
you need to sum the
frequencies of the words
from the vocabulary that
appear on the tweet.
At the end, you get a
value equal to eight.
Now let's get the value
of the third feature.
It is the sum of
negative frequencies of
the words from the vocabulary
that appear on the tweet.
For this example,
you should get 11
after summing up the
underlined frequencies.
So far, this tweets,
this representation
would be equal to
the vector 1, 8, 11.
You now know how to represent
a tweet as a vector
of dimension 3.
In the next video
you will learn to
pre-process your tweets
and as a result,
you will use those
pre-processed words
as words of your vocabulary.